.\"
.TH HWMULTD 1 "JULY 2011" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
hwmultd \- multicast hardware information, or respond to mutlicasted hardware information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hwmultd [-h] [-v] [-c
.I config-file
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hwmultd 
operates in two modes (or both).  As a server, hwmultd monitor hardware information
and multicasts it so that other computers listening to the same multicast group can
respond.  In client mode, hwmultd listens to multicasted hardware information and
acts accordingly.  For example, one box (the server) can multicast entropy while
others listening add that to their own entropy pools.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "no option"
This is the normal mode of operation.  hmultd reads its configuration file and forks
into the background as a daemon
.IP -c config-file
Use an alternate configuration file,
.I config-file
instead of /etc/hwmultd/hwmultd.conf, but otherwise operate as if no option were given.
.IP -h
Print out information about command line options and exit.
.IP -v
Print out version information and exit.
.SH SIGNALS
todo
.SH FILES
.IP /etc/hwmultd/hmultd.conf
The main daemon configuration file.  It is organized as
.I
key value
pairs.  Malformed lines not conforming are ignored.  Anything after # is also ignored.
Missing options are interpreted as use the default values.  The following is a list of
valid options.
.P
.B Debug
Default 2
.P
MulticastIP Default 239.252.67.151
.P
Port Default 8000
.P
Server 0 = client mode, 1 = server mode, 2 = both Defaults to 0
.P
User Default hwmultd
.P
Timing Default 1
.P
SourceIP Default 0.0.0.0
.P
Interface No default.  It defers to SourceIP if not set.
.P
HWPlugin Default null, the do nothing hardware plugin.
.P
CLPlugin Default null, the do nothing client plugin.
.IP /etc/hwmultd/plugin.conf
Per plugin configuration files.  The name must correspond to the plugin.so file which uses it.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
todo
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs at <http://opensource.dyc.edu/bugzilla3>
.SH AUTHOR
Anthony G. Basile <basile at opensource dot dyc dot edu>
